- [Instructor] Let's set up our poly repo
within GitHub to store the source code
for each of our microservices.
To help with that, we're going to use a GitHub organization,
which will have a repository for each service.
To create an organization within GitHub,
just click on your profile,
and then come down to your organizations and click here.
If you don't see this option,
you'll need to set up your first organization
using the instructions found at the link below.
Next, we'll click on the new organization button
to get the process started.
The first thing we'll need to do
is select the type of organization
that we'd like to create.
I'm going to use a free organization,
so I'll click on this button.
Next, we'll need to provide a name
for our new organization.
I'm going to name mine hotel-landon-kb
just to make the name unique.
Then I'll go ahead and provide my email,
and then indicate that I'm using a personal account.
Next, I'll need to solve a quick puzzle,
and then I can click on the next button
to create the organization.
All right, it looks like it created.
Now let's move on and set up the security configuration
within GitHub that some of our tools
in the pipeline will need.
The first piece of configuration we'll need
is a personal access token.
So click on your profile,
and then come down to Settings,
and within the settings menu,
click on developer settings.
Here you'll find the option on the sidebar
to start building a personal access token.
Click on that and then click generate new token.
Here I'm just going to name my token lab
and then I'll specify that it will expire in 90 days.
The next thing I'll need to do
is select some scopes
to give the token different permissions
that our tools will need.
The first one will be the repo scope,
then write:packages,
then admin:org, admin:public_key
and finally, user.
Once you've selected those,
just click on generate token here
at the bottom of the screen.
This will create our new personal access token,
and we can copy it by clicking on this button.
Now, we'll want to put this somewhere convenient
where we can access it
because we'll need it several times
throughout the course.
So I'm just going to go ahead
and write my token into a file named pat
within my home directory.
And there we can see it.
Okay, the next thing we'll need to do
is set up an SSH key
that some of our tools can use
to authenticate with GitHub.
To do that, I'm going to open a console
within the exercise files directory.
If we take a look within this directory,
you'll notice the setup_ssh script.
This script can help us generate our SSH key.
Let's go ahead and we can execute the script.
Okay, it looks like it executed,
and it placed our SSH key,
which is going to be an RSA token
inside of our .ssh folder,
and then for convenience,
it also wrote it to our home directory
where we have our public and private keys
for the RSA token.
We're going to need the value
of the public key in order to place it within GitHub.
So I'm going to go ahead
and print it to the console.
And then I'll copy the key to my clipboard
and we'll navigate back to GitHub.
And within the settings again,
I'm going to go down to the SSH and GPG keys.
Here I can click on the new SSH key
in order to add the public key into this form.
All right, and then I just need to give the key a name.
I'll call it lab once again.
Then I just need to click on the add SSH key button,
and there we can see it's registered with GitHub.
Now that the key is registered,
we can start to build out each of the repositories
for our microservices.
To help us with that,
I've created another script, setup_repos.
Let's just take a look at what this script does.
The first thing I'll point out
is that the script accepts three parameters.
The first is going to be our email.
The second will be our username,
and then the third will be the name
of our GitHub organization.
It's used to adjust some YAML files
and also it's used in this line
that creates a new repository
within our GitHub organization.
Now, to do that, it uses the GitHub CLI.
This is a tool that we can use
to work with GitHub from the command line.
You can do a lot of things,
like create pull requests
or even create repositories like we're going to do.
The script is going to iterate through each directory
within our exercise files
and create a new repository for it.
And that's how we're going to get each repository
in our organization for our microservices.
Now, to use the script,
we'll need to log in with the GitHub client.
To do that, you'll use the GitHub client's auth command,
and then you'll specify that you want to log in.
Next, you'll select GitHub.com.
Then SSH.
Then select the RSA key.
And then finally, we'll use an authentication token
to log in.
That's going to be the personal access token
we created earlier.
So let's go ahead and print that to the console.
And then I'm just going to copy it to my clipboard.
And then I'll paste it here in the console
so we can authenticate with GitHub.
Excellent, it looks like we're authenticated.
Okay, let's go ahead and run the script
to set up our repositories.
First, I'll provide my email address,
then my username,
and then finally, I'll specify the name
of my organization within GitHub.
Okay, I'll go ahead and execute the script
and it will begin to create repositories
and check in the source code files
for each of our microservices.
Okay, it looks like the script
is finished setting up our poly repos.
Let's navigate back over to GitHub
and we can check out the organization to see them.
So just click on your profile,
then your organizations,
and then click on the new organization that you created.
There's all of the repositories for our application.